Related Links

IMF TERMINOLOGY

facebook sharing button

twitter sharing button

email sharing button

copy sharing button

print sharing button

Term    (Glossary) Description (Glossary) "Bretton    Woods II." An explanation for global imbalances first proposed by Dooley,    Folkerts-Landau and Garber. It refers to the unilateral actions by emerging    markets, especially in east Asia, to manage their exchange rates with    reference to the US dollar. In particular, the authors noted that differing    economic priorities (export-led growth in EMEs and financial liberalization    in advanced countries) ensured that the present international monetary system    would be a mixed system of fully floating and managed exchange rates. The    authors further contend that the system is robust, though others disagree.    Cooper has also noted that the deeper and more sophisticated financial system    in advanced countries (in particular, the US) and its more favourable    demographics naturally favour such a mixed system. The name “Bretton Woods    II” aims to signal parallels between the unilateral actions of some countries    at the present time and the earlier (multilateral) compact that characterised    the original Bretton Woods system. “Original    sin” A concept first introduced by Eichengreen and Hausmann in 1999    and subsequently extended by the authors and Panizza in 2002 and 2003, it    refers to the inability of some countries (mainly developing countries) to    borrow in their own currencies. As such, these countries are forced to borrow    in foreign currencies, which, in turn exposes them to currency risk and    potentially balance of payments crises. An explanation for the unprecedented    accumulation of reserves by emerging markets in recent years is founded on    the idea of self-insurance for precautionary purposes when original sin may    be an issue. 2007 Decision (also known as    Decision on Bilateral Surveillance over Members’ Policies.) Surveillance in its present form was established by Article IV    of the IMF’s Articles of Agreement, as revised in the late 1970s following    the collapse of the Bretton Woods system of fixed exchange rates. Under    Article IV, member countries undertake to collaborate with the IMF and with    one another to promote exchange rate stability. For its part, the IMF is    charged with (i) overseeing the international monetary system to ensure its    effective operation, and (ii) monitoring each member's compliance with its    policy obligations under Article IV, Section 1. In June 2007, the legal    framework for surveillance underwent a major update with the adoption of the    Decision on Bilateral Surveillance over Members’ Policies. The Decision    clarifies that country surveillance should be focused on assessing whether    countries’ policies promote domestic and external stability. This means    surveillance should mainly focus on monetary, fiscal, financial, and exchange    rate policies and assess risks and vulnerabilities. It also provides guidance    to members on how to conduct exchange rate policies in a way that is    consistent with the objective of promoting exchange rate stability and    avoiding manipulation. Access    Limits Policies that govern the use of IMF resources by its members,    including access limits set in terms of members’ quotas. The access policy,    including annual and cumulative limits, under the credit tranches and the    Extended Fund Facility (EFF) are reviewed each year. Access under other    facilities also is reviewed periodically. Access under the Supplemental    Reserve Facility (SRF) and the Contingent Credit Line (CCL) are not subject    to limits in relation to quotas. Accounting    Unit The IMF’s unit of account is the special drawing right, or    SDR. Members’ currencies are valued by the IMF in terms of the SDR on the    basis of their representative rates of exchange, normally against the U.S.    dollar at spot market rates if available. Gold held by the IMF is valued at    the average historical acquisition cost. Accounts,    IMF The IMF operates its financial functions through three    separate accounting entities: the General Department, the SDR Department, and    the Administered Accounts. The financial functions of the IMF are discharged    by the Finance Department, which is an organizational unit of the staff. The    IMF has 15 other departments that are organizational units, as well as the    Office of the Managing Director, four institutes, offices in Paris, Geneva,    Tokyo and at the United Nations, and resident representatives located in    various member countries. Adequate    Safeguards Under the Articles of Agreement, the IMF is to make its    general resources temporarily available to members "under adequate    safeguards." The IMF considers the principal safeguard of repayment to    be strong economic adjustment programs but has also adopted specific measures    to protect against misuse of IMF resources by ensuring that members have in    place adequate accounting, reporting and auditing systems and provide the IMF    timely, accurate and comprehensive information (see also Safeguard Assessments    and Non-complying Purchase). Adjustment    Program A detailed economic program, usually supported by use of IMF    resources, that is based on an analysis of the economic problems of the    member country and specifies the policies being implemented or that will be    implemented by the country in the monetary, fiscal, external, and structural    areas, as necessary, to achieve economic stabilization and set the basis for    self-sustained economic growth. Administered    Accounts Accounts established for financial and technical services,    that are consistent with the purposes of the IMF, including the    administration of resources contributed by individual members to provide    assistance to other members. All operations and transactions involving    the Administered Accounts are separate from those of the IMF’s other    accounts. Amendments    to the Articles of Agreement The Articles of Agreement have been amended three    times: The First Amendment (July 1969) introduced the special drawing    right (SDR). The Second Amendment (April 1978) reflected the change from the    par value system based on a fixed price for gold to an international monetary    system based on floating exchange rates. The Third Amendment (November 1992)    allowed for the suspension of the voting and certain related rights of a    member that fails to fulfill any of its obligations under the Articles (other    than obligations with respect to SDRs). The Board of Governors in September    1997 adopted a resolution to amend the Articles to allow for a special    one-time allocation of SDRs. The Fourth Amendment will become effective when    three-fifths of membership having 85 percent of the total voting power have    accepted it. Amortization Scheduled reimbursement or repayment of the amount borrowed. Arrangement A decision by the IMF that gives a member the assurance that    the institution stands ready to provide foreign exchange or SDRs in    accordance with the terms of the decision during a specified period of time.    An IMF arrangement—which is not a legal contract—is approved by the Executive    Board in support of an economic program under which the member undertakes a    set of policy actions to reduce economic imbalances and achieve sustainable    growth. Resources used under an arrangement carry with them the obligation to    repay the IMF in accordance with the applicable schedule, and to pay charges    on outstanding purchases (drawings) and loans. Arrears A stock of outstanding debt, either domestic or external,    resulting from payments not being made when due. Arrears of the government    may arise, for example, from a failure to pay interest or amortization    obligations when due or when there is a delay in paying bills to contractors,    wages to civil servants, or retirement benefits to pensioners beyond the date    that these payments are legally obligated to be made. Article    IV Consultation A regular, usually annual, comprehensive discussion between    the IMF staff and representatives of individual member countries concerning    the member's economic and financial policies. The basis for these discussions    is in Article IV of the IMF Articles of Agreement (as amended, effective    1978) which direct the Fund to exercise firm surveillance over each member's    exchange rate policies. Articles    of Agreement An international treaty that sets out the purposes,    principles, and financial structure of the IMF. The Articles, which    entered into force in December 1945, were drafted by representatives of 45    nations at a conference held in Bretton Woods, New Hampshire. The Articles    have since been amended three times, in 1969, 1978, and 1992, as the IMF    responded to changes in the world economic and financial structure;    see Amendments (to the Articles of Agreement). Balance    of Payments (BOP) A statement summarizing the economic transactions between the    residents of a country and nonresidents during a specific period, usually a    year. The BOP includes transactions in goods, services, income, transfers and    financial assets and liabilities. Generally, the BOP is divided into two    major components: the current account and the capital and financial account. Bancor The IMF's assessment of member’s compliance with their policy    obligations under Article IV, Section 1 is implemented through the regular    monitoring of economies and the associated provision of policy advice.    Bilateral surveillance is intended to identify weaknesses that are causing or    could lead to financial or economic instability. IMF’s Executive Board is    responsible for conducting bilateral surveillance, and establishes both the    legal framework and priorities of IMF surveillance. Basic    Period Each of the consecutive periods of five years (or less) during    which a determination is made whether there is a global need for additional    international reserves to justify a new allocation of SDRs. There has not    been an allocation since the third basic period (1978-81). Basic    Rate of Charge The interest rate that is charged on outstanding IMF credit    financed from the IMF's general resources. The basic rate is determined by    the IMF's net income target in any financial year and is stated as a    proportion of the SDR interest rate. Benchmarks In the context of IMF programs, a point of reference against    which progress may be monitored. Benchmarks may be either quantitative or    structural in content, and may be set on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. Bilateral    surveillance (An explanation of surveillance in general is found here and    multilateral surveillance, here.) In his original proposal for a post-war international monetary    system, British economist John Maynard Keynes envisaged a global bank (the    International Clearing Union or ICU), which would issue its own currency    (bancor), based on the value of 30 representative commodities including gold,    exchangeable against national currencies at fixed rates. All trade accounts    would be measured in bancor, while each country would maintain a bancor    account vis-à-vis the ICU (expected to be balanced within a small margin),    and also have an overdraft allowance vis-à-vis the ICU. When countries    experienced large trade deficits (more than half of the bancor overdraft    allowance), they would pay interest on their accounts, undergo economic    adjustments (possibly also capital controls) and devalue their currencies.    Conversely, countries with large trade surpluses would also be subject to a    similar charge and required to appreciate their exchange rates. Keynes    expected that this mechanism would bring in a smooth symmetry of adjustments    across countries and avoid global imbalances. Bretton    Woods System, The Refers to the international monetary system in operation in    the post-war period until the end of the gold exchange standard in 1971. The    name comes from the agreements put in place at Bretton Woods, New Hampshire,    where delegations from 44 countries gathered to construct a post-war global    monetary and financial architecture, including creating the IMF and the World    Bank. The system was characterized by a system of adjustable pegs to the US    dollar, which in turn, was pegged to gold at $35 an ounce. Countries could    adjust their currency values in consultation with the IMF and their partners.    While the system largely prohibited restrictions on current account    transactions, capital controls were explicitly allowed, and indeed seen as a    means of ensuring the system’s stability. By the late 1960s, a fundamental    tension arose whereby the domestic macroeconomic policy imperatives in the    United States were at odds with the need to maintain the stability and smooth    functioning of the international monetary system. This spurred an effort to    find a new reserve asset that could act as a substitute for the dollar or any    other national currency, thereby addressing this flaw, which led to the    creation of the SDR. The system came to an end when the United States dropped    the link between the dollar and gold due to a need to regain monetary    independence and the fiscal expenditures related to, among others, the war in    Vietnam. Broad    Money A measure of the money supply in an economy, with broad    coverage. Broad money usually includes national currency and deposits held by    residents in depository institutions; these deposits may be either    transferable, such as demand deposits, or nontransferable, such as term    deposits; deposits denominated in foreign currency and held by residents may    also be included in broad money. Budget A statement of the projected revenues, proposed expenditures,    and planned financing of any surplus or deficit of an entity, especially    government Burden    Sharing Decisions adopted by the Executive Board of the IMF since 1986    regarding the sharing, between members paying charges and members receiving    remuneration, of the financial consequences to the IMF of overdue    obligations. An amount equal to overdue charges (excluding special charges)    and an allocation to the Special Contingent Account are generated each    quarter by an upward adjustment of the rate of charge and a downward    adjustment of the rate of remuneration (see Extended Burden Sharing, Special    Charges, Remunerated Reserve Tranche, and Remuneration). Capital    Account A standard component of the balance of payments accounts,    usually a shortened term for the capital and financial account, which refers    to (i) capital transfers and acquisition/disposal of non-produced,    nonfinancial assets and (ii) financial assets and liabilities. Capital    account liberalization Refers to the process of removing or eliminating restrictions    that govern the movement of capital across national borders. While the IMF    Articles of Agreement do not, with very limited exceptions, impinge on    members’ ability to regulate capital flows, there has been a general tendency    to greater capital account liberalization over time, including in emerging    markets. In theory, capital account liberalization can enhance long-term    growth prospects through allowing: (i) access to finance for investment at    lower cost; (ii) consumption-smoothing in the face of adverse shocks; (iii)    diversification of assets and liabilities across countries; (iv) “technology    transfer” from foreign banks; and (v) greater discipline on macroeconomic    policy. However, the empirical evidence is mixed, with some studies    suggesting considerable gains while others pointing to a weak or even    negative relationship between liberalization and growth. It also appears that    not all capital is equal: foreign direct investment is generally seen to be    beneficial while short-term debt is seen to carry greater risk. In view of    this, most commentators, including the IMF, have advocated a cautious and    sequenced liberalization framework embedded in a larger program of    macroeconomic and financial reforms. In the late 1990s, an effort was made to    enshrine capital account liberalization as part of members’ obligations, with    safeguards and transitional arrangements, under the IMF Articles of    Agreement. This effort was not successful, however, following the onset of    the Asian financial crisis. Nevertheless, agreements leading to greater    liberalization continue to be concluded through a variety of vehicles    including bilateral agreements (e.g., free trade and investment guarantee    agreements), regional treaties (e.g., the Treaty on the Functioning of the    European Union) and other agreements (e.g., the OECD Code of Liberalization    of Capital Movements). Capital    controls Refer to the measures affecting capital flows into and out of    a country. The IMF Articles of Agreement do not, with very limited    exceptions, impinge on members’ ability to regulate capital flows, and most    countries do maintain some controls on certain aspects of capital flows. On    occasion, countries have temporarily imposed capital controls as a means of    creating policy space to enact countercyclical monetary policies and, in the    face of persistent and large inflows, mitigate the build up of risks. Recent    work by IMF staff suggest that these tools could have a role, especially in    the face of large and potentially destabilizing inflows, but that these need    to be anchored in an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework. The IMF    surveys countries to ascertain the measures in place that restrict capital    flows. The results are reported in the Fund’s Annual Report on Exchange    Arrangements and Exchange Restrictions (AREAER). The AREAER forms the basis    for the various measures of financial integration and openness including the    well-known ones compiled by Chinn and Ito, Quinn, and Schindler. Carry    trade An investment strategy whereby an investor borrows in a    currency that carries a low interest rate and invests in assets in another    economy where rates of return are higher. In most cases, a large and    persistent interest differential seems to determine carry trade flows, though    conceivably other aspects of returns (expectations of exchange rate    appreciation, differing growth and profit outlook) may also play a part.    Initially, it was used to describe how leveraged investors in Japan behaved    (borrowing in yen cheaply to invest in high yielding assets, mainly in Asia    and the Pacific) but has now also come to describe investor behavior in the    eurozone and Switzerland in the run up to the crisis, and potentially from    the US to faster growing emerging markets in the post-crisis period. Commitment    Fee A charge of 1/4 of 1 percent a year payable at the beginning    of each period (usually one year) on the resources committed for that period    under Stand-By and Extended Arrangements. This fee is reimbursed when    committed resources are drawn. Compensatory    Financing Facility (CFF) A special IMF financing facility (window) that was established    to provide resources to members to cover shortfalls in export earnings and    services receipts, as well as excesses in cereal import costs, that are    temporary and arise from events beyond the members’ control. Conditionality Economic policies that members intend to follow as a condition    for the use of IMF resources. These are often expressed as performance    criteria (for example, monetary and budgetary targets) or benchmarks, and are    intended to ensure that the use of IMF credit is temporary and consistent    with the adjustment program designed to correct a member’s external payments    imbalance. Consumer    price index (CPI) A measure of a country's general level of prices based on the    cost of a typical basket of consumer goods and services. Convertibility The ability to freely use a currency for international    transactions by the residents of any country. Credit    Tranche Policies Policies under which members may make use of IMF credit.    Provided a member is making reasonable efforts to solve its balance of    payments problems, it can make use of IMF resources up to the limit of its    first credit tranche, equivalent to 25 percent of its quota, on liberal    terms. Requests for the use of IMF resources in the "upper credit    tranches," or more than 25 percent of quota, require substantial    justification for the expectation that the member's balance of payments    difficulties will be resolved within a reasonable period of time. Cross-Conditionality To avoid duplication of requirements by the IMF and the World    Bank—known as cross-conditionality—there is an understanding that each    institution must proceed with its own financial assistance according to the    standards laid down in its Articles of Agreement and the policies adopted by    its Executive Board. In other words, compliance with the requirements of one    institution ought not be made a condition for the availability of financial    assistance by the other institution. Currency    Holdings The currency holdings of the IMF are the resources held at its    disposal in the IMF No. 1 Account, No. 2 Account, and IMF Securities Account    in its member countries which are obtained as a result of member's quota    payments and transactions and operations between the IMF and members. Current    Account The record of all transactions in the balance of payments    covering the exports and imports of goods and services, payments of income,    and current transfers between residents of a country and nonresidents. Debt Outstanding financial liabilities arising from past borrowing.    Debt may be owed to external or domestic creditors and typically, debt    financing is in the form of loans or bonds. The debtor may be either a public    (government) or private sector entity. Debt    Relief Agreements by creditors to lessen the debt burden of debtor    countries by either rescheduling interest and principal payments falling due    over a specified time period, sometimes on a concessional basis, or by    partially or fully cancelling debt service payments falling due during a    specified period of time. Debt    Service Scheduled interest and principal payments (amortization) due    on public and publicly guaranteed debt outstanding during a year. Default In finance, default is the term used when a party is unwilling    or unable to pay their debt obligations. This can occur with all debt    obligations including bonds, debentures, mortgages, loans, and notes. Default    can also occur with sovereign bonds, that is, governments can default on    their payments to creditors. In corporate finance, a default is typically a    prelude to bankruptcy. With most loans the total amount owed becomes    immediately payable on the first instance of a default of payment. Depository    and Fiscal Agency Each member designates a fiscal agency (ministry of finance,    central bank, or similar entity) as a channel for the conduct of financial    transactions with the IMF and a depository (central bank or similar agency)    to maintain the accounts of the IMF (the IMF No. 1 and No. 2 Accounts and the    Securities Account). Designation    Plan A list of participants in the SDR Department whose balance of    payments and reserve positions are sufficiently strong for them to be called    upon to provide freely usable currency in exchange for SDRs within a    financial quarter, together with the amounts they may be called upon to    provide. The designation plan is established in advance of each financial    quarter (currently only on a precautionary basis) by approval of the    Executive Board. Early    Repurchase A repurchase (repayment) made before the end of the    established maximum repurchase period. Under specific circumstances, the IMF    may call upon a member to make an early repurchase. Early    Repurchase Expectation The expectation of repurchase (repayment) in advance of its    originally scheduled due date. According to the Articles of Agreement, a    member is normally expected to repurchase its currency (make repayment of    usable currencies) as its balance of payments and reserve positions improve.    The current early repurchase policy has been in effect since June 1979 and    establishes amounts expected to be repurchased taking into account the level    of a member’s reserves and their growth, as well as other parameters. A separate    repurchase expectation applies to purchases made under the Supplemental    Reserve Facility and the Contingent Credit Line. Such repurchases are    expected one year before they become obligatory, except that at the request    of the member the IMF may decide to extend the expectation period by up to    one year, though not beyond the due date. Emergency    Financing Mechanism A set of exceptional procedures to facilitate rapid Executive    Board approval of IMF financial support for a member while ensuring the    conditionality necessary to warrant such support. These emergency measures    are used only in circumstances representing, or threatening to give rise to,    a crisis in a member’s balance of payments that requires an immediate IMF    response. Emergency    Post-conflict Assistance Since 1962, the IMF has provided emergency assistance in the    form of outright purchases to help members overcome balance of payments    problems arising from sudden and unforeseeable natural disasters. This    assistance was extended in September 1995 to cover certain post-conflict    situations. Assistance is normally limited to 25 percent of quota and is    available only if the member intends to move within a relatively short time    to an IMF arrangement. In post-conflict cases an additional 25 percent of    quota can be provided in certain circumstances. Emerging    Markets The capital markets of developing countries that have    liberalized their financial systems to promote capital flows with    nonresidents and are broadly accessible to foreign investors. Enhanced    Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) Facility established in December 1987 to provide assistance on    concessional terms to low-income member countries facing protracted balance    of payments problems. (Changed to the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility    in 1999.) Enhanced    Surveillance Procedure Policy introduced in 1985 to help members make progress in    addressing their debt problems and improving relations with their creditors.    During the enhanced surveillance period, economic developments in the member    country are monitored by the IMF. The staff prepares an assessment of the    member’s economic program, which may be presented by the member to official    and private creditors for consideration. The policy was broadened in 1993 to    cover any situation in which a member would find this enhanced monitoring by    the IMF helpful. Exchange    Rate The price of one currency in terms of another. Most commonly,    exchange rates are expressed as the number of units of domestic currency that    will purchase one unit of foreign currency (e.g. units of currency per U.S.    dollar). An exchange rate may also be defined as the inverse: the number of    units of foreign currency that one unit of domestic currency will purchase. Exchange    rate regimes In the present IMS, countries have wide latitude to choose    exchange rate frameworks, ranging from a fully free-floating currency with    minimal intervention, to completely adopting the currency of another country.    Currently, the IMF classifies a country as having one of 4 regimes based on    the degree of flexibility and the existence of formal or informal commitments    to exchange rate paths. These are: exchange rate anchors such as currency    boards, full dollarization, pegs, and bands; monetary aggregate targeting;    inflation targeting; and others. Recent work by IMF staff suggests that, with    floating exchange rates among systemic countries, the system can support more    active exchange rate management at the periphery, but as emerging markets    increasingly migrate to the core, potential systemic instability arises.    Further, even with floating exchange rates, an important concern is that    countries at the core of the system need to maintain macroeconomic discipline    to foster confidence in their reserve assets, while those that are    non-systemic need to anchor their policies on sound fundamentals and prudent    policies. Excluded    Holdings The part of a member’s currency held in the General Resources    Account (GRA) that reflects the member’s use of IMF credit and is therefore    excluded when determining the member’s reserve tranche position in the IMF.    When determining a member’s reserve tranche position, holdings in the IMF No.    2 Account that are less than 1/10th of 1 percent of the member’s quota also    are excluded. Exorbitant    privilege Coined by the then-Finance Minister of France, Valéry Giscard    d'Estaing, the term refers to the greater macroeconomic space accorded to a    country issuing a major reserve currency (especially the United States) by    virtue of the greater liquidity of its markets, ability to borrow in its own    currency abroad at lower cost, as well as the seigniorage earned from issuing    an internationally used currency (distinct from, but associated with, its    role as a reserve asset). Owing to the reliance of the IMS on the quality of    policies in the centre country, some have spoken of an “exorbitant    responsibility” or “exorbitant duty”, especially if no likely alternative is    apparent. The extent to which this privilege (and resulting responsibility)    is significant is the subject of some disagreement, with some commentators    arguing it is trivial, and others contending that a large benefit accrues to    the U.S. Extended    Arrangement A decision of the IMF under the Extended Fund Facility that    gives a member the assurance of being able to purchase (draw) resources from    the General Resources Account (GRA) in accordance with the terms of the    decision during a specified period, usually three years, and up to a    particular amount. Extended    Burden Sharing The IMF established a second Special Contingent Account on    July 1, 1990, and decided to place SDR 1 billion to the account within about    five years (through quarterly downward adjustments to the rate of    remuneration and upward adjustments to the basic rate of charge). These    actions were taken to safeguard against possible losses arising from    undischarged repurchase obligations related to purchases financed by the    encashment of "rights" following the successful completion of a    rights accumulation program. The target of SDR 1 billion was reached in    February 1997. The account was dissolved in 1999 and the resources made    available to contributors to assist in financing special assistance to poor    countries under the HIPC/PRGF initiatives. (See Burden Sharing.) Extended    Fund Facility A financing facility (window) under which the IMF supports    economic programs that generally run for three years and are aimed at    overcoming balance of payments difficulties resulting from macroeconomic and    structural problems. Typically, the member's economic program states the    general objectives for the three-year period and the specific policies for    the first year; policies for subsequent years are spelled out at the time of    program reviews (see Extended Arrangement). External    Debt Financial obligations to a creditor who is not a resident of    the debtor's country Financial    Transactions Plan The Executive Board adopts a financial transaction plan    (previously known as the operational budget) for each upcoming quarter    specifying the amounts of SDRs and selected member currencies to be used in    purchases and repurchases (transfers and receipts) expected to be conducted    through the General Resources Account during that period. Financing    Assurances An IMF policy developed in response to the external debt    crisis of the late 1970s and early 1980s to help mobilize financial support    from the international banking community for countries experiencing    debt-servicing difficulties. Under the policy, the IMF would not make its    resources available to a member undertaking an adjustment program until    receiving assurances that the financing for the program would be forthcoming. First    Credit Tranche Purchase See Credit Tranche Policies. Floating    Facilities Purchases (drawings) made under the special facilities    (currently the Compensatory Financing Facility and the Supplemental Reserve    Facility) are not counted in calculating annual and cumulative access limits.    These are therefore termed "floating facilities." However, for the    purpose of determining the level of conditionality (whether first tranche or    higher), all purchases are taken into account. Foreign    Direct Investment (FDI) The acquisition of at least ten percent of the ordinary shares    or voting power in a public or private enterprise by nonresident investors.    Direct investment involves a lasting interest in the management of an    enterprise and includes reinvestment of profits. Foreign    Exchange Any type of financial instrument that is used to make payments    between countries is considered foreign exchange. Examples of foreign    exchange assets include foreign currency notes, deposits held in foreign    banks, debt obligations of foreign governments and foreign banks, monetary    gold, and SDRs. Freely    Usable Currency A currency that the IMF has determined is widely used to make    payments for international transactions and widely traded in the principal    exchange markets. At present, the euro, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and    U.S. dollar are classified as freely usable currencies. G20 MAP See Mutual Assessment Program. General    Arrangements to Borrow (GAB) Long-standing arrangements under which 11 industrial countries    stand ready to lend to the IMF to finance purchases (drawings) that aim at    forestalling or coping with a situation that could impair the international    monetary system. The GAB currently amounts to SDR 17 billion, and    there is also an associated arrangement with Saudi Arabia for SDR 1.5    billion. Since their establishment in 1962, these arrangements have been    renewed every four or five years. General    Department An accounting entity of the IMF comprised of the General    Resources Account (GRA), the Special Disbursement Account (SDA), the    Investment Account (not activated), and the Borrowed Resources Suspense    Accounts (inactive since December 1991). General    Resources Assets, whether ordinary (owned) or borrowed, maintained    within the IMF’s General Resources Account (GRA) General    Resources Account (GRA) The principal account of the IMF, consisting of a pool of    currencies and reserve assets, representing the paid subscriptions of member    countries' quotas. The GRA is the account from which the regular lending    operations of the IMF are financed. Global    financial safety net Refers to the global network of crisis financing instruments.    This network encompasses self-insurance (reserves); bilateral arrangements    (e.g., swap lines between central banks during periods of stress); regional    arrangements such as those in Asia, Europe and Latin America where members    stand ready to support one another; and a multilateral system with the IMF at    its centre. An important part of the IMF’s reform agenda is to weave these    elements of the safety net more closely together so that they are complementary    and comprehensive. In recent discussions with regional financing arrangements    from Asia, Europe, Latin America and the Middle East, it was agreed that the    ultimate objective should be to strengthen surveillance and the effectiveness    of co-financing mechanisms for countries vulnerable to crises. This could be    done through a variety of means including IMF involvement in surveillance,    such as being done with Asia; and exploring co-financing arrangements during    crises, as being carried out in Europe. Global    imbalances Refers to the phenomenon whereby some major systemic    countries—most notably the US – run large and persistent current account    deficits, which are mirrored by large surpluses in a number of countries,    especially export-oriented economies in east Asia, and the oil exporters.    They also refer to savings/investment balances, where countries have an    excess of saving versus investment opportunities. The lack of an automatic    mechanism for dealing with global imbalances was seen as a key flaw in the    international monetary system, and thus became a key concern of the    international community, leading the IMF to convene multilateral    consultations to discuss the issue in 2006. The worry was these imbalances    were unsustainable and could lead to a disorderly adjustment caused by a    collapse in the value of the US dollar. In the global financial crisis, a    flight to safety led to a strengthening of the dollar. Nevertheless, many    remain concerned that allowed to persist, these imbalances would derail the    recovery by stymieing the needed adjustment in deficit countries. Some    commentators also point to the potential for the large capital flows    engendered by these imbalances to contribute to asset price bubbles and sow    the seeds for further instability. Globalization The process through which an increasingly free flow of ideas,    people, goods, services, and capital leads to the integration of economies    and societies. Major factors in the spread of globalization have been    increased trade liberalization and advances in communication technology. Gold    standard A global monetary system whereby countries anchored their    currencies to gold. While there are variations of the system, in all of them,    it was expected that surplus countries would eventually experience domestic    inflation, which would erode their competitiveness while deficit countries    would see their competitiveness restored through disinflation or even    deflation. In practice, the system was not able to function as expected as    adherence to the standard often removed the prospect of allowing domestic monetary    policy to adjust to demand conditions. While proponents point to this as a    mechanism that forces discipline on governments and central banks, others    have noted a number of problems including that the supply of gold changes    slowly and often unpredictably leading to deflation in the long run, and    hoarding of specie by surplus countries that may cause disproportionate    contractions in other countries in the short term. Most commentators have    concluded that adherence to the gold standard was, at the very least, not    helpful in the face of the Great Depression in the early 20th Century, though    disagreements remain on how central the system was in causing and propagating    the downturn. Gross    Domestic Product (GDP) Gross domestic product is the most commonly used single    measure of a country's overall economic activity. It represents the total    value of final goods and services produced within a country during a    specified time period, such as one year. Gross    National Product (GNP) Gross national product was formerly used as a measure of a    country's overall economic activity, equal to GDP less compensation of    employees and property income payable to the rest of the world plus the    corresponding items receivable from the rest of the world; GNP has been    renamed gross national income (GNI) in the System of National Accounts. Group    of Twenty (G-20) Formed in 1999, the G-20 brings together finance ministers and    central bank governors from 19 countries and the European Union (represented    by the President of the European Council and the European Central Bank). The    heads of governments of the G-20 nations began meeting periodically from    2008, in the wake of the global financial crisis. While an informal group    with no permanent secretariat, the G-20 has become a key forum, bringing    together the key advanced countries of the G-7 (Canada, France, Germany,    Italy, Japan, the US and the UK), Australia, and 11 major emerging markets    (Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Korea, Mexico, Russia, Saudi    Arabia, South Africa, and Turkey). Leadership of the G-20 rotates, with    France holding the chair in 2011. More information on the IMF’s relationship    with the G-20 can be found here. Heavily    Indebted Poor Countries Initiative (HIPC) The HIPC Initiative, adopted in 1996, provides    exceptional assistance to eligible countries to reduce their external debt    burdens to sustainable levels, thereby enabling them to service their    external debt without the need for further debt relief and without    compromising growth. It is a comprehensive approach to debt relief    which involves multilateral, Paris Club, and other official and bilateral    creditors. To be eligible, countries must (1) have established a strong track    record of performance under programs supported under the Poverty Reduction    and Growth Facility (PRGF) and the International Development Association    (IDA); (2) be IDA-only and PRGF-eligible; (3) face an unsustainable debt    burden; and (4) have developed a Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper. A strong    track record of policy implementation is intended to ensure that debt relief    is put to effective use. Following a comprehensive review in 1999, the    Initiative was enhanced to provide faster, deeper, and broader debt relief    and to strengthen the links between debt relief, poverty reduction, and    social policies. In 2005, the HIPC Initiative was supplemented by the    Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI). Holdings    Rate The exchange rate of the member’s currency against the SDR, at    which the IMF holds the currency of the member (see Representative Rate). Inflation A sustained increase in the general price level, often    measured by an index of consumer prices. The rate of inflation is the    percentage change in the price level in a given period. Interest Scheduled payments made to a creditor in return for the use of    borrowed money and which will be determined by the interest rate, the amount    borrowed (principal) and the duration of the loan. Interest    Rate The fixed charge or return, usually expressed on an annual    basis, on a financial asset expressed as a percentage of the price of the    asset. International    Monetary Fund (IMF) Organization established by international treaty in 1945 to    promote monetary cooperation among its members. Its statutory purposes    include promoting the balanced growth of international trade, stability of    exchange rates and the maintenance of orderly exchange arrangements among    members. The IMF monitors global economic and financial developments and    gives policy advice, lends to member countries with balance of payments    problems, and provides technical assistance in its areas of expertise. International    monetary system (IMS) Refers to the rules and institutions for international    payments. Less abstractly, it refers to the currency/monetary regimes of    countries, the rules for intervention if an exchange rate is fixed or managed    in some way, and the institutions that back those rules if there is a problem    (through official credits, controls, or parity changes). After the collapse    of the Bretton-Woods system, the present system has evolved in an ad hoc    fashion with the key currencies floating against one another, and currencies    of economies on the periphery largely managed in some manner against these    core currencies (often the U.S. dollar), leading some to dub the arrangements    a “non-system”. A key notion in this setup is that of reserve asset:    countries, even those with floating currencies, will need to have access to    foreign currency assets that can be used to intervene in markets during    periods of stress. This is even more so if a country fixes or manages its    exchange rate. Since the demise of real assets like gold as monetary anchors,    the U.S. dollar has been the world’s principal reserve asset, with the euro    playing an important role. Other important reserve currencies include the    British pound and the Japanese yen. In recent years, the accumulation of    reserves by emerging market economies has accelerated, and risks undermining    the stability of the IMS. Investment Investment from the perspective of the domestic economy is the    purchase of capital equipment, e.g., machines and computers, and the    construction of fixed capital, e.g., factories, roads, housing, that serve to    raise the level of output in the future. From the perspective of an    individual, investment is expenditure, usually on a financial asset, designed    to increase the individual's future wealth. Letter    of Intent (LOI) A document in which a member country of the IMF formally    requests an arrangement to use the Fund's financial resources and describes    its commitments to strengthen its economic and financial policies. The letter    of intent may be accompanied by a more detailed Memorandum of Economic and    Financial Policies LIBOR LIBOR stands for the London Interbank Offered Rate and is a    daily reference rate based on the interest rates at which banks offer to lend    unsecured funds to other banks in the London wholesale (or    "interbank") money market. Liquidity    Ratio A measure used to gauge the IMF's capacity to    provide financial assistance to members and meet members' claims on the IMF.    It is the ratio of the IMF’s net uncommitted usable resources to its liquid    liabilities. Money Anything that is generally accepted in exchange as payment for    goods and services. While the key function of money is to act as a medium of    exchange, money also serves as a store of value, unit of account, and    standard of deferred payment. Moral    Hazard In general, a feature of insurance that arises when the    provision of insurance increases the probability of the occurrence of the    event being insured against, usually because the insurance diminishes the    incentives for the insured party to take preventive actions. For example,    banks may lend for riskier ventures than they otherwise would if they expect    losses to be effectively covered by the government through deposit insurance    or otherwise. On an international level, recourse to IMF financing may generate    moral hazard on the part of both borrowers and lenders, leading to less due    diligence by private lenders, and allowing borrowing governments to incur    larger debts and get by with weaker policies and institutions. Hence, the    availability of IMF financing, while offering a cushion to countries in times    of financial crises, may increase the likelihood of such crises occurring. Multilateral    Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) The Multilateral Debt Relief Initiative (MDRI) provides for    100 percent relief on eligible debt from three multilateral institutions to a    group of low-income countries to free up additional resources to help these    countries reach the MDGs. All countries that reach the completion point under    the enhanced Initiative for Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC    Initiative), and those with per capita income below US$380 and outstanding    debt to the Fund at end-2004, are eligible for the MDRI. Unlike the HIPC Initiative,    the MDRI does not propose any parallel debt relief on the part of official    bilateral or private creditors, or of multilateral institutions beyond the    IMF, IDA, and the AfDF. Multilateral    surveillance (for surveillance in general, see here and bilateral    surveillance, see here) Multilateral surveillance refers to the process of assessing    developments, risks and vulnerabilities of the international monetary system    as a whole. The IMF conducts such surveillance through a number of vehicles    including reports (World Economic Outlook, Global Financial Stability    Reports), vulnerability and early warning assessments (Early Warning Exercise    and vulnerability assessments for advanced and emerging market economies, and    most recently, low-income countries) and in cooperation with other groups,    most notably the G-20 Mutual Assessment Program. The IMF’s mandate on    conducting multilateral surveillance is set out in its obligation to “oversee    the international monetary system to ensure its effective operation”. Multiple    currency system Refers to an international monetary system that is based on a    group of currencies rather than primarily just one currency. In a multiple    currency system, it is conceivable that there would be greater discipline on    reserve currency issuers as users could shift their holdings from one    currency to another. This would also spread the “exorbitant privilege”    currently accruing to the US by virtue of the dollar’s dominance. Mutual    Assessment Program At the Pittsburgh Summit in 2009, G-20 Leaders launched the    Framework for Strong, Sustainable, and Balanced Growth. The backbone of this    framework is a multilateral process through which G-20 countries identify    objectives for the global economy and the policies needed to reach them. The    IMF was requested to provide the technical analysis needed to evaluate how    members’ policies fit together—and whether, collectively, they achieve the    G-20’s goals. Specifically, the G-20 requested that the Fund (1) analyze how    the G-20’s respective national and regional policy frameworks fit together,    and (2) develop a forward-looking analysis of whether policies pursued by    individual G-20 countries are collectively consistent with more sustainable    and balanced trajectories for the global economy. A blog post on the MAP by    the Fund’s Economic Counsellor can be found here, and an IMF Report on the    MAP is posted here. Narrow    money Designation of a narrow measure of the money supply - usually    including currency held outside banks and demand deposits. Net    Cumulative SDR Allocations Cumulative allocations of SDRs less any SDR cancellations. (As    of end-March 2000, there have been no cancellations of SDRs.) New    Arrangements to Borrow (NAB) Arrangements, which became effective in 1998, under which 25    member countries or their financial institutions stand ready to lend to the    IMF under circumstances similar to those covered by the General Arrangements    to Borrow (GAB). The NAB do not replace the GAB but are to be the    first and principal recourse in the event of a need to provide supplementary    resources to the IMF. The total amount of the NAB is SDR 34 billion, and the    combined amount that can be drawn under the NAB and the GAB also cannot    exceed SDR 34 billion. Nominal    effective exchange rate A measure of the exchange rate of a currency in terms of the    exchange rates of a group of currencies. It is typically calculated for a    particular country's currency as a weighted average of the bilateral exchange    rates of the currencies of that country's main trading partners and presented    as an index number. Noncomplying    Purchase A purchase (drawing) made by a member under a Stand-By or an    Extended Arrangement that the member is later found not entitled to make—that    is, a purchase made on the basis of incorrect information. The IMF has a set    of guidelines to apply in such cases. Norm    for Remuneration Calculated as the total of (1) 75 percent of a member’s quota    before the Second Amendment of the Articles (April 1, 1978), plus (2) any    subsequent increases in its quota. For a country that became a member after    April 1, 1978, the norm is the percentage of its quota equal to the weighted    average relative to quota of the norms applicable to all other members on the    date that the member joined the IMF, plus the amounts of any increases in its    quota afterwards. At each quota increase, a member’s norm rises, becoming    closer to 100 percent of its quota. A member’s norm determines its    remunerated reserve tranche position. Official    Development Assistance (ODA) Official development assistance - loans, grants, and technical    assistance that governments provide to developing countries. It is    administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of    developing countries as its main objective, and it is concessional in    character, containing a grant element of at least 25% (calculated at a rate    of discount of 10%). "Aid" often stands for development aid and is    usually used to refer specifically to Official Development Assistance (ODA). Operations The use or receipt of monetary assets by the IMF, other than    exchanges of monetary assets (that is, other than transactions.) Examples are    the payment of remuneration and receipt of charges. Operations in SDRs are    uses of SDRs other than exchanges of SDRs for monetary assets (that is, other    than transactions by agreement or with designation). Ordinary    Resources Assets held in the General Resources Account (GRA) that derive    from members’ quota subscription payments and the undistributed net income    from the use of these resources. Outright    Purchase A purchase (drawing) for which there is no formal IMF    arrangement, such as a purchase under a special policy, e.g., the policy on    the emergency assistance. Performance    Criteria Macroeconomic indicators such as monetary and budgetary    targets that must be met, typically on a quarterly or semi-annual basis, for    the member to qualify for purchases under the phasing schedule for Stand-By    Arrangements, Extended Fund Facility (EFF) Arrangements, and Poverty    Reduction and Growth Facility Arrangements. Some performance criteria are    those necessary to implement specific provisions of the Articles of    Agreement. (See also Benchmarks.) Periodic    Charges Charges (interest) are payable by a member on its outstanding    use of IMF credit. Phasing The practice of making the IMF’s resources available to its    members in installments over the period of an arrangement. The pattern of    phasing can be even, front-loaded, or back-loaded, depending on the financing    needs and the speed of adjustment. Poverty    Reduction and Growth Facility (PRGF) Established as the Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility    (ESAF) in 1987, enlarged and extended in 1994, and further strengthened in    1999 to make poverty reduction a key and more explicit element. The purpose    of the facility is to support programs to strengthen substantially    and in a sustainable manner balance of payments positions, and to foster    durable growth, leading to higher living standards and a reduction in    poverty. Eighty low-income countries are currently PRGF-eligible. Loans are    disbursed under three-year arrangements, subject to observance of performance    criteria and the completion of program reviews. Loans carry an annual    interest rate of 0.5 percent, with a 5-1/2 year grace period and a 10-year    maturity. Precautionary    Arrangement A Stand-By or an Extended Arrangement under which the member    agrees to meet specific conditions for use of IMF resources although it has    indicated to the Executive Board its intention not to make purchases    (drawings). Precautionary Balances Balances held in the form of General and Special Reserves, and    the Special Contingent Accounts that were established in the context of the    arrears strategy. Prescribed    SDR Holder A nonparticipant in the SDR Department that has been    prescribed by the IMF as a holder of SDRs. Program    Monitoring Monitoring by the IMF to determine whether the performance    criteria specified and policy commitments made in the context of a Stand-By    or an Extended Arrangement are being observed by the member receiving    resources (see Conditionality). Purchases    and Repurchases When a member draws on the IMF's general resources, it does so    by purchasing SDRs or other members’ currencies in exchange for its own    (domestic) currency. The IMF’s general resources are, by nature, revolving:    purchases (or drawings) have to be reversed by repurchases (or repayments) in    installments within the period specified for a particular policy or facility. Purchasing    Power Parity (PPP) A theory which relates changes in the nominal exchange rate    between two countries currencies to changes in the countries' price levels.    The purchasing power parity theory predicts that an increase in a currency's    domestic purchasing power will be associated with a proportional currency    appreciation, and that a decrease will be associated with a proportional    currency depreciation. Quota Each member of the IMF is assigned a quota, denominated in    SDRs, that is based broadly on the country's economic position relative to    other members. The size of a country's quota takes into account its GDP,    current account transactions, and official reserves. Quotas determine    members' capital subscriptions to the Fund, voting power, and the amount of    financial assistance available to them from the Fund. Quotas are reviewed    regularly, normally every five years. During reviews they may be adjusted to    reflect changes in the global economy or changes in members' economic    positions relative to other members. Rate of    Remuneration The IMF pays remuneration (interest) on members' reserve    tranche positions; the basic rate of remuneration has been set equal to the    SDR interest rate since February 1, 1987 and must be maintained in the range    of 80-100 percent of the SDR interest rate. Real    Effective Exchange Rate A broad summary measure of the prices of one country's goods    and services relative to the prices of goods and services in that country's    trading partners. It is typically calculated as a weighted average of the    ratios of a country's domestic price index to the price indices of its    foreign trading partners, where the indices are expressed in the same    currency units. Remunerated    Reserve Tranche Position A member receives remuneration from the IMF (at a rate    determined by the IMF) on any excess of its reserve tranche position over the    difference between its quota and its norm for remuneration. Remuneration The interest paid by the IMF every quarter on a member’s    remunerated reserve tranche position. Representative    Rate The exchange rate of a member's currency—normally    against the U.S. dollar. If the member has an exchange market where a    representative spot rate for the U.S. dollar (against the member's currency)    can be readily ascertained, then that representative rate will be used. If    such a market rate cannot be readily ascertained for the U.S. dollar but can    be ascertained for another currency for which a representative market rate    against the U.S. dollar exists, then that cross rate can be used. Otherwise,    the IMF determines a rate for the currency that is appropriate. Reserve    accumulation Following the crisis episodes faced by emerging markets in the    late 1990s and the early part of the 2000s, a number of major EMEs started to    accumulate significant levels of reserves. By 2009, reserves totalled 13    percent of global GDP, a threefold increase from a decade earlier, with the    growth coming from EMEs. This accumulation, while initially understandable,    has become a concern in the system because it leads to a paradoxical    situation where capital flows uphill to developed countries instead of to    emerging markets where the need is greater. Additionally, the scale of these    flows may have caused distortions in the pricing of advanced country    financial assets. Reserve    currency In general, reserve currencies are those fully convertible    currencies that are in wide use in the international monetary system, both    because they account for the bulk of reserve assets held by authorities and    because they are widely used in current account and financial transactions.    Reserve currencies also tend to be characterised by the fact that many    countries other than the issuer may have liabilities in these currencies due    to the deeper markets in these currencies. Conversely, one of the characteristics    of a reserve currency issuer is its freedom from original sin Reserve Position in the IMF A member has a creditor (or reserve) position in the IMF if it    has lent reserve assets to the IMF under a loan agreement, and/or the member    has provided reserve assets to the IMF either as a result of its initial    quota payment or through IMF use of the holdings of the member's currency to    provide financial assistance to other members. More precisely, the creditor    (or reserve) position is the sum of outstanding borrowing by the IMF from the    member, if any, and the member’s reserve tranche position. Reserve    Tranche Position The extent to which the IMF's holdings of a member's currency    (excluding holdings that reflect the member's use of IMF credit, and holdings    in the IMF number two account that do not exceed 10 percent of quota) are    less than the member's quota. The reserve tranche position is part of the    member country's external reserves. Rights    Accumulation Program (RAP) An economic program agreed between the IMF and an eligible    member in protracted arrears to the IMF that provides a framework for the    member to establish a satisfactory track record of policy and payments    performance, and permits the member to accumulate rights to future drawings    of IMF resources following clearance of arrears to the IMF, up to the level    of arrears outstanding at the beginning of the program. Rights    Approach A special approach to address the situation of members that    were in protracted arrears to the IMF at end-1989, on the basis of a rights    accumulation program. Safeguards    Assessment A two-stage evaluation of a member country central bank's    control, accounting, reporting and auditing systems to ensure that resources,    including those provided by the Fund, are adequately monitored and    controlled. The first stage will determine whether there are clear    vulnerabilities in these systems, based on information provided by central    banks. If weaknesses in internal procedures are suspected, a second stage    will comprise on-site evaluations and recommendations for improvements.    Safeguards assessments for all new users of Fund resources will begin after    mid-year 2000 and will run on an experimental basis no later than end-2001. SDR --    Special Drawing Right The value of the SDR was initially defined as equivalent to    0.888671 grams of fine gold—which, at the time, was also equivalent to one    U.S. dollar. After the collapse of the Bretton Woods system in 1971, however,    the SDR was redefined as a basket of currencies, today consisting of the    Chinese renminbi, the euro, Japanese yen, pound sterling, and U.S. dollar.    The U.S. dollar-equivalent of the SDR, as well as its value against other    major currencies, is posted daily on the IMF’s website. It is calculated as    the sum of specific amounts of the five basket currencies valued in U.S.    dollars, on the basis of exchange rates quoted at noon each day in the London    market. The basket composition is reviewed every five years by the Executive    Board to ensure that it reflects the relative importance of currencies in the    world's trading and financial systems. In the most recent review (completed    in November 2015), the Executive Board decided that, effective October 1,    2016, the Chinese renminbi was determined to be freely usable and was    included in the SDR basket. A new weighting formula was also adopted in the    2015 review. The new formula assigns equal shares to the currency issuer’s    exports and a composite financial indicator. The financial indicator    comprises, in equal shares, official reserves denominated in the member’s (or    monetary union’s) currency that are held by other monetary authorities that    are not issuers of the relevant currency, foreign exchange turnover in the    currency, and the sum of outstanding international bank liabilities and    international debt securities denominated in the currency. The currency    amounts for the new SDR basket were announced on October 1, 2016. The next    review will take place by 2021. SDR Interest Rate Weighted average of interest rates on short-term financial    instruments in the markets of the currencies included in the SDR valuation    basket. The SDR Interest Rate Calculation is determined on a weekly    basis and is subject to a 0.050 percent floor. Self-Financing    PRGF Under a self-sustained Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility,    loans would not be financed by PRGF Trust borrowing (as under the    current PRGF), but by IMF resources currently in the PRGF Trust Reserve    Account, on a revolving basis. Service    Charge A fixed charge of 1/2 of 1 percent levied on each purchase    (drawing) of IMF resources in the General Resources Account other than    reserve tranche purchases, which carry no charges. The service charge is    payable at the time of the transaction. Sovereign    debt A debt instrument issued by a sovereign government. Most    sovereign debt takes the form of bonds. Special    Charges Charges in addition to the basic rate of charge levied on a    member’s overdue repurchases and charges. Special    Contingent Accounts Accounts established to hold precautionary balances in order    to strengthen the IMF’s financial position in connection with members’    overdue financial obligations. Staff    Monitored Program (SMP) A staff-monitored program is an informal and flexible    instrument for dialogue between the IMF staff and a member country on its    economic policies. Under a staff-monitored program the country's targets and    policies are monitored by the IMF staff; a staff-monitored program is not    supported by the use of the Fund's financial resources; nor is it subject to    the endorsement of the Executive Board of the IMF. Stand-By    Arrangement A decision of the IMF by which a member is assured that it    will be able to make purchases (drawings) from the General Resources Account    (GRA) up to a specified amount and during a specified period of time, usually    one to two years, provided that the member observes the terms set out in the    supporting arrangement. Structural    Adjustment Changing the way in which an economy is organized in order to    raise productive capacity. Reforms associated with structural adjustment can    include liberalization of trade and investment policies and anti-competitive    agricultural policies; removal of exchange and price controls; and reform of    tax policies. Structural    Adjustment Facility (SAF) A financial facility of the Fund established in 1986 to    provide concessional loans to low-income Fund member countries. It recycled    resources lent under the IMF's Trust Fund. It was superseded by the Enhanced    Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) which was established in 1987 to    promote stronger adjustment and reform measures than those under the SAF. The    ESAF was replaced by the Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility in 1999. Substitution    account (also reserve substitution account) During periods of strong dollar liquidity growth, calls have    been made to diversify reserve assets, including most recently by China. One    idea that has been broached is that of a substitution account whereby reserve    holders have a transparent method of swapping their short-term dollar assets    for other assets. It would involve having the IMF (or some other    supranational body) set up an account that would allow central banks to swap    dollar assets (typically, short-term U.S. T-bills) for SDRs (alternatively,    to boost the number of SDRs, central banks could swap reserves in exact    proportion to the components of the SDR basket). The account would in turn    convert the U.S. T-bills for longer-term claims on the U.S. Treasury, with    the spread between the long-term interest rate and the short-term rate paid    to SDR holders helping to cover the exchange rate risk. However, there was no    assurance that the exchange rate risk would be covered (e.g., the shift in    relative demand could flatten the yield curve and reduce the term premium).    Other mechanisms for sharing the exchange rate risk were floated, such as    investing in government bonds of the SDR component currencies or using a    portion of the IMF’s gold stock to absorb the costs. All the proposals over    the years have not been acted on, in part because countries were never able    to settle on a mechanism for sharing exchange rate risk, but also because the    dollar’s value recovered and a more sanguine view regarding its prospects    re-emerged. Supplemental    Reserve Facility (SRF) A financial facility of the IMF, established in 1997, designed    to provide financial assistance to member countries experiencing exceptional    balance of payments difficulties due to a large short-term financing need    related to a sudden and disruptive loss of market confidence. There are no    explicit access limits. Financial resources under this facility are provided    under an associated stand-by or extended arrangement when access under either    of these arrangements would exceed either the annual or cumulative limit. Surveillance An essential aspect of the IMF’s responsibilities associated    with overseeing the policies of its members in complying with their    obligations specified in the Articles of Agreement in order to    ensure the effective operation of the international monetary system. Surveillance See definitions of bilateral and multilateral surveillance.    The IMF, through the Executive Board, is tasked with assessing whether    members meet their obligations to promote a stable system of exchange rates.    The IMF carries out this responsibility by monitoring developments in its    member countries, as well as at regional and global levels, to ascertain    potential sources of instability, with the aim of fostering international    dialogue and cooperation to deal with these concerns. This process is known    as surveillance. The modalities of surveillance vary and include bilateral    consultations with members (also known as “Article IV Consultations”), the    production of global and regional reports such as the World Economic Outlook,    Global Financial Stability Report and the Fiscal Monitor, and exercises to    assess vulnerabilities in member countries (Early Warning Exercise,    vulnerability exercises for advanced and emerging economies). Other IMF    activities, such as the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP) informs    surveillance. The IMF periodically reviews its experience with surveillance    through the Triennial Surveillance Review, last conducted in 2008. The next    Review will be completed in 2011. Based on the outcome of the Review, the    Executive Board will then set out the priorities that will guide Fund    surveillance over the medium term in a Statement of Surveillance Priorities.    Key priorities for IMF surveillance include better assessment of tail risks,    enhancing financial sector surveillance and real-financial linkages, improved    understanding of multilateral perspectives and more effective analysis of    risks to external stability.,A number of initiatives that would improve this    include better and more comprehensive treatment of spillovers in its reports,    and better oversight over the financial sector are the goals. Tranche A slice or segment, usually used as either "reserve    tranche," the name given to a country's creditor position in the Fund,    or as "credit tranche," a designation of the extent of a country's    purchases (borrowing) from the Fund. When a country borrows from the Fund    under a stand-by arrangement, credit is typically made available in segments,    or tranches, traditionally equivalent to 25 percent of a country's quota.    Policies that govern the IMF's general lending practices under stand-by arrangements    are referred to as "Credit Tranche Policies." Transactions An exchange of monetary assets by the IMF for other monetary    assets (for example, a purchase or a repurchase). Transactions    by Agreement Transactions in which participants in the SDR Department    (currently all members) and/or prescribed holders voluntarily exchange SDRs    for currency at the official rate as determined by the IMF. These    transactions are usually arranged by the IMF. Transparency Openness, honesty, and accountability in public and private    transactions. The term "transparency" is frequently used to mean    openness in the working of institutions. It is linked to a variety of demands    for broader public access to information. The IMF has developed codes of good    practices on fiscal transparency, and transparency in monetary and financial    policies. Triffin    dilemma Named after economist Robert Triffin who first proposed it,    the dilemma refers to what he thought was an inherent tension in the original    Bretton Woods system. He noted that the US could not simultaneously supply    the necessary volume of high quality reserve assets demanded by faster    growing economies, while ensuring parity with gold. At that time, because    global trade (and therefore demand for dollars to settle trade) was    increasing more quickly than growth in the US, any emissions of US debt would    necessarily be domestically inflationary and likely fiscally unsustainable.    On the other hand, if the US were to rein in spending and reduce both its    fiscal and external deficits, the world would lose its injections of needed    dollars and was in danger of slipping into a deflationary spiral. Coupled    with this, the US was also confronted with the expenditures related to the    war in Vietnam which saw it finally abandon the gold standard in 1971. Upper    Credit Tranches Originally, referred to credit available from the Fund in an    amount between 25 and 100 percent of a country's quota. Since access to IMF    credit is now permitted substantially above 100 percent of quota, the upper    credit tranches now refer to any use of IMF credit above 25 percent of quota. Use of    IMF Resources The extension of credit to members through the use of IMF    resources under the General Resources Account, loans made to members of    resources in the Special Disbursement Account or resources borrowed by the    IMF as Trustee for the PRGF Trust. Valuation    Adjustment Each member has the obligation of maintaining the value in    terms of the SDR of the balances of its currency held by the IMF. Whenever    the holdings of a member’s currency are revalued, a receivable (for the IMF)    or a payable (by the IMF) is established for the amount of currency payable    by or to the member. World    Bank The World Bank includes two development institutions owned by    184 member countries: the International Bank for Reconstruction and    Development (IBRD) and the International Development Association (IDA). The    IBRD is concerned with middle income and creditworthy poor countries, while    the IDA focuses on alleviating poverty in the poorest countries in the world.    Both institutions provide low-interest loans, interest-free credit and grants    to developing countries for projects and programs to, for example, build    schools and health centers, provide water and electricity, fight disease, and    protect the environment. World Bank assistance is funded both by member    country contributions and through bond issuance.